apps/docs/docs/02-getting-started/03-microservice-databases.mdx, before:

---
title: 3. Microservice Databases
---

# Setup Microservice Databases

<div
  style={{
    position: 'relative',
    paddingBottom: '64.63195691202873%',
    marginBottom: '20px',
    height: 0
  }}
>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/887d917e881a4c14a9abd12e052faf0a"
    frameborder="0"
    allowFullScreen="true"
    webkitallowfullscreen="true"
    mozallowfullscreen="true"
    style={{
      position: 'absolute',
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: '100%',
      height: '100%'
    }}
  />
</div>

Microservices typically make use of a variety of database stores. The following command will create the required databases, migrate them to the latest state, and fill them with relevant data.

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-generate --parallel=1
```

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-migrate
```

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-seed
```

Once that has completed, run:

```shell
nx run-many --target=data-import
```

(Note: When running data-import, it is recommended that you run it from the main branch.)

## Common Issues

### prisma-generate failing

If prisma-generate is failing, try running:

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-reset
```

#### command failed because of mmdc

If prisma generate fails with a error message similar to the one below:

```shell
Command failed: "/workspaces/core/node_modules/-bin/mmdc" -i "/tmp/prisma-erd-q0 cpUx/prisma.mmd" -0 "/workspaces/core/apis/api-journeys/db/ERD.svg" -c"/tmp/pri
sma-erd-qOcpUx/config-json" -p"/tmp/prisma-erd-qOcpUx/puppeteerConfig-json"
```

It is related to [prisma-erd-generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prisma-erd-generator) attempting to run. Under the hood, it uses puppeteer and chromium to execute. The error this command is experiencing could be related to chromium not being installed, installed incorrectly, or not having the proper permissions to execute.

Here are some steps you can follow to resolve the issue:

- run `sudo apt-get -y install chromium`
- On Mac update Docker Desktop to at least 4.28.0
- rebuild your container using latest main

Commit message:

docs: updates to core documentation re. docker config, server commands (#7749)
Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/docs/02-getting-started/03-microservice-databases.mdx, after:

---
title: 3. Microservice Databases
---

# Setup Microservice Databases

<div
  style={{
    position: 'relative',
    paddingBottom: '64.63195691202873%',
    marginBottom: '20px',
    height: 0
  }}
>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/887d917e881a4c14a9abd12e052faf0a"
    frameborder="0"
    allowFullScreen="true"
    webkitallowfullscreen="true"
    mozallowfullscreen="true"
    style={{
      position: 'absolute',
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: '100%',
      height: '100%'
    }}
  />
</div>

Microservices typically make use of a variety of database stores. The following command will create the required databases, migrate them to the latest state, and fill them with relevant data.

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-generate --parallel=1
```

Once that has completed, run:

```shell
nx run-many --target=data-import
```

(Note: When running data-import, it is recommended that you run it from the main branch.
This typically takes about 12 minutes.)

Once that has completed, run:

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-migrate
```

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-seed
```

Here are all the above commands, and the reset, in one script:

```shell
#!/bin/sh
nx run-many --target=prisma-reset
nx run-many --target=prisma-generate --parallel=1
nx run-many --target=data-import
nx run-many --target=prisma-migrate
nx run-many --target=prisma-seed

```

## Common Issues

### prisma-generate failing

If prisma-generate is failing, try running:

```shell
nx run-many --target=prisma-reset
```

#### command failed because of mmdc

If prisma generate fails with a error message similar to the one below:

```shell
Command failed: "/workspaces/core/node_modules/-bin/mmdc" -i "/tmp/prisma-erd-q0 cpUx/prisma.mmd" -0 "/workspaces/core/apis/api-journeys/db/ERD.svg" -c"/tmp/pri
sma-erd-qOcpUx/config-json" -p"/tmp/prisma-erd-qOcpUx/puppeteerConfig-json"
```

It is related to [prisma-erd-generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prisma-erd-generator) attempting to run. Under the hood, it uses puppeteer and chromium to execute. The error this command is experiencing could be related to chromium not being installed, installed incorrectly, or not having the proper permissions to execute.

Here are some steps you can follow to resolve the issue:

- run `sudo apt-get -y install chromium`
- On Mac update Docker Desktop to at least 4.28.0
- rebuild your container using latest main
